// SIE Exam Prep — Concepts Reference
// A glossary-style "study notes" layer, organized by chapter.
// Each entry: a term/concept plus a clear elaboration of what it means and why it matters for the exam.

function c(term, detail) { return { term, detail }; }

const CONCEPTS = {
  ch1: [
    c("SEC vs. FINRA", "The SEC (Securities and Exchange Commission) is a federal government agency created by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, with ultimate authority over U.S. securities markets. FINRA is a self-regulatory organization (SRO) — not a government body — that writes and enforces detailed rules for broker-dealers and their representatives, operating under SEC oversight. Think of the SEC as the top-level regulator and FINRA as the industry's day-to-day rule-writer and enforcer."),
    c("Securities Act of 1933", "Often called the 'paper act' or 'truth in securities' law. It governs the primary market — the original issuance of new securities — by requiring issuers to register offerings with the SEC and provide a prospectus disclosing material facts. Its goal is full and fair disclosure, not guaranteeing the investment is good."),
    c("Securities Exchange Act of 1934", "Created the SEC and governs the secondary market — trading between investors after a security has been issued. It also requires registration of broker-dealers and exchanges, and prohibits market manipulation, such as wash trades and matched orders."),
    c("Investment Company Act of 1940", "Regulates investment companies, including mutual funds, closed-end funds, and UITs. It sets rules around registration, structure, and disclosure to protect investors who pool money into professionally managed portfolios."),
    c("Investment Advisers Act of 1940", "Requires registration of individuals or firms that provide investment advice for compensation as a regular business. This is distinct from broker-dealer registration, although some firms and individuals are dual-registered as both."),
    c("MSRB", "The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board writes rules specifically for the municipal securities market (think city and state bonds). It doesn't enforce its own rules directly against broker-dealers — that enforcement role falls to FINRA and other regulators."),
    c("SIPC", "The Securities Investor Protection Corporation protects customers if their brokerage firm fails and assets go missing — up to $500,000 per customer, of which no more than $250,000 can be cash. Crucially, SIPC does NOT protect against investment losses from a stock or bond simply declining in value."),
    c("Form U4 vs. Form U5", "Form U4 is filed to register an individual as a representative with FINRA, disclosing background and history. Form U5 is filed when that person leaves the industry or a firm — it's the termination notice, and it can include details about why the person left."),
    c("Blue Sky Laws", "The nickname for state-level securities laws (most based on the Uniform Securities Act), designed to protect investors from fraudulent offerings within that state. They operate alongside, not instead of, federal securities law."),
    c("Regulation D / Private Placements", "Reg D provides an exemption from full SEC registration for securities sold privately to a limited group of investors, often accredited investors who meet certain income or net worth thresholds. This lets companies raise capital faster and more cheaply than a full public offering."),
    c("Net Capital Rule vs. Customer Protection Rule", "These are two related but distinct SEC rules for broker-dealers. The net capital rule (15c3-1) ensures a firm has enough liquid capital to meet its obligations. The customer protection rule (15c3-3) requires the firm to keep customer cash and fully paid securities segregated from its own assets, so customer property is protected even if the firm runs into trouble."),
    c("Regulation Best Interest (Reg BI)", "Sets the standard of conduct for broker-dealers recommending securities transactions or investment strategies to retail customers. It has four core obligations: Disclosure (be upfront about conflicts), Care (use diligence to act in the customer's best interest), Conflict of Interest (identify and address conflicts), and Compliance (have policies to support all of this)."),
  ],
  ch2: [
    c("Common vs. Preferred Stock", "Common stock typically carries voting rights and unlimited upside, but is paid last in a liquidation. Preferred stock generally has no voting rights but gets paid dividends and liquidation proceeds before common shareholders — a trade-off of growth potential for priority and stability."),
    c("Cumulative vs. Non-Cumulative Preferred", "With cumulative preferred stock, any dividend the company skips doesn't disappear — it accumulates as a liability that must be paid before common shareholders get anything. Non-cumulative preferred has no such protection; a skipped dividend is simply gone."),
    c("Convertible Preferred Stock", "Gives the holder the option to exchange preferred shares for a fixed number of common shares. This offers some downside protection (preferred-style dividends and priority) with potential upside if the common stock performs well."),
    c("Rights vs. Warrants", "Both let holders buy stock at a set price, but rights are short-term (weeks) and issued to existing shareholders to prevent dilution when new shares are issued. Warrants are long-term (often years), usually attached to a bond or preferred stock offering as a sweetener to make the deal more attractive."),
    c("Ex-Dividend Date", "The cutoff date that determines who gets the next dividend. If you buy on or after the ex-date, you do NOT get the upcoming dividend — the seller keeps that right. This date is set based on the trade settlement cycle relative to the company's record date."),
    c("Stock Splits", "A forward split (e.g., 2-for-1) increases the number of shares and proportionally lowers the price per share — the company's total market value doesn't change. A reverse split does the opposite, consolidating shares and raising the price per share, often to avoid delisting from an exchange."),
    c("ADRs (American Depositary Receipts)", "Let U.S. investors buy shares of foreign companies in U.S. dollars, traded on U.S. exchanges. The key added risk compared to a similar U.S. stock is currency risk — if the foreign currency weakens against the dollar, that can reduce returns even if the underlying stock performs well locally."),
    c("Stock Classifications", "Growth stocks reinvest earnings for expansion rather than paying dividends. Income stocks pay high, steady dividends. Defensive stocks (utilities, staples) hold up relatively well in downturns. Cyclical stocks (autos, travel) rise and fall with the broader economy. These categories help frame a stock's risk/return profile for suitability discussions."),
  ],
  ch3: [
    c("Bond Price/Yield Relationship", "This is one of the most tested concepts on the SIE: bond prices and yields move inversely. When interest rates rise, existing bond prices fall (since new bonds offer better rates), and vice versa. A bond trading above par is at a 'premium' (lower yield); below par is a 'discount' (higher yield)."),
    c("Yield Types", "Nominal yield is just the stated coupon rate. Current yield divides annual interest by the current market price. Yield to maturity (YTM) factors in price changes to maturity for a fuller picture of total return. Yield to call (YTC) assumes early redemption at the call date instead of holding to maturity."),
    c("General Obligation vs. Revenue Bonds", "GO bonds are backed by the issuer's taxing power — broad and generally considered safer. Revenue bonds are repaid only from the income generated by a specific project (like a toll road or stadium), so they depend on that project's success."),
    c("Treasury Securities by Maturity", "T-bills: 1 year or less, sold at a discount with no coupon. T-notes: 2 to 10 years. T-bonds: more than 10 years, up to 30. All are backed by the U.S. government and considered essentially free of default risk."),
    c("Credit Ratings", "Agencies like Moody's and S&P rate bonds based on default risk — the issuer's ability to pay interest and principal on time. Investment grade (roughly BBB-/Baa3 and above) is considered relatively safe; anything below is 'high yield' or 'junk,' carrying more default risk in exchange for higher potential yield."),
    c("Secured vs. Unsecured Debt", "Mortgage bonds and other secured debt are backed by specific collateral, giving bondholders a claim on assets if the issuer defaults. Debentures are unsecured, relying only on the issuer's general creditworthiness. Subordinated debentures rank even lower in priority if things go wrong."),
    c("Municipal Bond Tax Treatment", "Interest on most municipal bonds is exempt from federal income tax, and often from state tax too if you live in the issuing state ('double tax-exempt'). This is why investors compare munis using 'taxable equivalent yield' — to see what a taxable bond would need to yield to match the muni's after-tax benefit."),
    c("Call Risk & Reinvestment Risk", "Call risk: an issuer redeems a bond early, usually when rates have fallen, cutting off your higher coupon. Reinvestment risk follows naturally — you're then forced to reinvest that money at lower prevailing rates. Both are bigger concerns for higher-coupon, callable bonds in a falling-rate environment."),
  ],
  ch4: [
    c("Open-End vs. Closed-End Funds", "Open-end funds (most mutual funds) continuously issue and redeem shares at NAV — there's no fixed share count. Closed-end funds issue a fixed number of shares in an IPO, then trade on an exchange like a stock, where the market price can drift above (premium) or below (discount) NAV based on supply and demand."),
    c("NAV Calculation", "Net Asset Value per share = (Total Assets − Total Liabilities) ÷ Shares Outstanding. This is the core value used to price mutual fund purchases and redemptions once daily."),
    c("Share Classes (A, B, C)", "Class A: pays a front-end load at purchase, lower ongoing fees — best for long-term holders who can use breakpoints. Class B: back-end load (declining over time) and higher ongoing fees, often converting to A shares eventually. Class C: level annual load, no conversion — simpler but can cost more over a long holding period."),
    c("Breakpoints & Rights of Accumulation", "Breakpoints reduce the sales charge percentage as investment size increases. The right of accumulation lets an investor combine the value of existing holdings with a new purchase to qualify for a better breakpoint. A letter of intent locks in breakpoint pricing now, based on a commitment to invest a target amount within about 13 months."),
    c("ETFs vs. Mutual Funds", "ETFs trade all day on an exchange at fluctuating market prices, like a stock, and use an in-kind creation/redemption process through 'authorized participants' to keep their price close to NAV. Mutual funds are priced once per day at NAV, with purchases/redemptions transacted directly with the fund."),
    c("Variable vs. Fixed Annuities", "In a fixed annuity, the insurance company bears the investment risk and guarantees a set rate of return. In a variable annuity, the contract owner bears the investment risk — the payout depends on how the separate account investments perform, which means it can go up or down."),
    c("Annuity Mechanics", "Accumulation phase: money grows, often tax-deferred. Annuitization: converting the accumulated value into a stream of periodic payments. The exclusion ratio determines how much of each payment is a tax-free return of principal versus taxable earnings."),
    c("REITs", "Real Estate Investment Trusts pool investor capital into real estate or mortgages and must distribute most of their taxable income to shareholders to maintain favorable tax treatment. Equity REITs own and operate properties (rental income); mortgage REITs hold mortgage debt (interest income)."),
  ],
  ch5: [
    c("Calls vs. Puts", "A call gives the holder the right to BUY the underlying at the strike price — calls gain value as the stock rises. A put gives the holder the right to SELL at the strike price — puts gain value as the stock falls. Remember: 'Calls up, puts down.'"),
    c("Buyer Risk vs. Writer (Seller) Risk", "Option buyers can never lose more than the premium they paid — that's their max loss, full stop. Option writers (sellers) take on the obligation side: a naked (uncovered) call writer faces theoretically unlimited risk if the stock keeps rising, since they must deliver shares at the strike price no matter how high the market price goes."),
    c("Intrinsic Value vs. Time Value", "Intrinsic value is the 'in the money' amount — it only exists if exercising the option right now would be profitable. Time value is everything else in the premium, reflecting the chance the option becomes more valuable before expiration. Time value decays as expiration approaches (time decay), which is why options are sometimes called 'decaying assets.'"),
    c("In the Money / At the Money / Out of the Money", "For a call: in the money means market price > strike price. For a put: in the money means market price < strike price. At the money means market price ≈ strike price. Out of the money is the opposite of in the money for each type — and out-of-the-money options have zero intrinsic value."),
    c("Covered Call vs. Naked Call", "A covered call means the writer already owns the underlying stock, so if assigned, they simply deliver shares they already hold — risk is limited to giving up upside above the strike. A naked call means the writer doesn't own the stock, so if assigned, they'd have to buy shares at the (potentially much higher) market price to deliver them — unlimited risk."),
    c("Protective Put", "Buying a put against stock you already own acts like insurance — it sets a floor on how much you can lose if the stock drops, in exchange for paying a premium. It's a classic hedging strategy, as opposed to a speculative one."),
    c("Straddles", "A long straddle (buying a call and put at the same strike/expiration) profits from a big price move in either direction — useful when you expect volatility but don't know which way the stock will move. A short straddle (selling both) profits if the stock stays flat, but carries significant risk if it moves sharply either way."),
    c("Why the OCC Matters", "The Options Clearing Corporation is the entity that actually issues and guarantees every listed option contract in the U.S. It standardizes contracts and acts as the counterparty to every trade, which is what makes it safe to trade options without worrying about the other side of the trade defaulting."),
  ],
  ch6: [
    c("Traditional IRA vs. Roth IRA", "Traditional IRA: contributions may be tax-deductible now (pre-tax), but withdrawals in retirement are taxed as ordinary income. Roth IRA: contributions are after-tax (no upfront deduction), but qualified withdrawals in retirement — including all the growth — are completely tax-free. Roths also aren't subject to RMDs during the original owner's lifetime, unlike Traditional IRAs."),
    c("Defined Benefit vs. Defined Contribution Plans", "Defined benefit (like a classic pension) promises a specific payout, and the employer bears the investment risk to fund that promise. Defined contribution (like a 401(k)) only defines how much goes IN — the eventual payout depends entirely on contributions and investment performance, so the employee bears the risk."),
    c("Required Minimum Distributions (RMDs)", "Once you reach a certain age, the IRS requires you to start withdrawing (and paying tax on) a minimum amount each year from Traditional IRAs and most employer plans — the government wants its tax revenue eventually, since contributions were tax-deferred. Roth IRAs are the major exception during the original owner's life."),
    c("Early Withdrawal Penalty", "Taking money out of a Traditional IRA before age 59½ typically triggers ordinary income tax PLUS a 10% penalty, unless a specific exception applies (like certain medical expenses, first-time home purchase up to a limit, or disability)."),
    c("Capital Gains: Short-Term vs. Long-Term", "Hold an asset one year or less, and any gain is taxed as ordinary income (short-term). Hold it more than one year, and the gain qualifies for typically lower long-term capital gains rates. This one-year line is a frequently tested detail."),
    c("Wash Sale Rule", "If you sell a security at a loss and buy back a 'substantially identical' security within 30 days before or after the sale, the IRS disallows the loss for tax purposes. This prevents investors from claiming a tax loss while effectively keeping the same position."),
    c("Rollovers: Direct vs. Indirect", "A direct (trustee-to-trustee) rollover moves funds straight from one custodian to another with no tax withholding. An indirect rollover sends the money to you first — triggering mandatory 20% withholding from employer plans — and you then have 60 days to redeposit the full original amount (including the withheld portion, out of pocket) or owe tax and possibly penalties on the shortfall."),
    c("Step-Up in Basis", "When you inherit a security, your cost basis usually 'steps up' to its market value on the date of the original owner's death — not what they originally paid. This can significantly reduce (or eliminate) taxable gain if you sell shortly after inheriting."),
  ],
  ch7: [
    c("Market vs. Limit Orders", "A market order prioritizes speed — it executes immediately at whatever the best available price is. A limit order prioritizes price — it only executes at a specified price or better, but there's no guarantee it executes at all if the market never reaches that level."),
    c("Stop Orders", "A stop order isn't an order to trade at a specific price — it's a trigger. A buy stop sits above the market and converts to a market order if the price rises to that level (often used to limit losses on a short position). A sell stop sits below the market and triggers a market order if the price falls to that level (often used to limit losses on a long position)."),
    c("Cash Account vs. Margin Account", "A cash account requires full payment for every purchase — no borrowing. A margin account lets you borrow part of the purchase price from the broker-dealer, using your securities as collateral, subject to Regulation T's 50% initial margin requirement and FINRA's 25% maintenance requirement."),
    c("Margin Calls", "If the equity in a margin account falls below the maintenance requirement (due to a price decline), the firm issues a margin call demanding more cash or securities to bring the account back into compliance. Failing to meet a margin call can result in the firm liquidating positions."),
    c("Short Selling", "Selling stock you've borrowed (not own), hoping to buy it back later at a lower price to return to the lender and pocket the difference. The risk is theoretically unlimited, since a stock's price can rise indefinitely, unlike a long position where the max loss is the amount invested."),
    c("Account Registration Types", "JTWROS (joint tenants with rights of survivorship): a deceased owner's share automatically passes to the surviving owner(s). JTIC (joint tenants in common): a deceased owner's share passes to their estate instead. This distinction matters a lot for estate planning and is commonly tested."),
    c("Discretionary Accounts", "A discretionary account lets a representative make trading decisions (what, how much, which security) without checking with the customer for each trade — but this requires written authorization from the customer in advance, plus the account must be approved and reviewed by a principal."),
    c("Settlement Cycle (T+1)", "Most stock and corporate bond trades settle one business day after the trade date (T+1) — meaning the buyer must pay and the seller must deliver securities by then. Knowing this cycle also underlies how ex-dividend dates are determined."),
  ],
  ch8: [
    c("Suitability: Three Components", "Reasonable-basis suitability: the rep must understand the product well enough to believe it could be suitable for at least some investors. Customer-specific suitability: the recommendation must fit this particular customer's profile (goals, risk tolerance, financial situation). Quantitative suitability: even individually suitable trades can become a violation in the aggregate if there are too many of them, given the customer's profile (a red flag for potential churning)."),
    c("Churning vs. Excessive Trading", "Churning specifically refers to trading driven by the rep's interest in generating commissions rather than the customer's interest — it's a more serious, intent-based violation. It's closely related to (and often evidenced by) quantitative suitability violations."),
    c("Insider Trading & Tippees", "Trading on material nonpublic information is prohibited — and that liability doesn't stop with the insider. A 'tippee' who receives a tip and trades on it can also be held liable, even if they aren't an employee of the company."),
    c("Front Running", "Placing a trade ahead of a known, pending large customer order — using advance knowledge of that order — to profit from the price move the big order is likely to cause. This abuses a position of trust and access to order flow information."),
    c("Market Manipulation Tactics", "Wash trades (simultaneous buy/sell by the same party, no real ownership change) and matched orders (coordinated trades between colluding parties) both create a false, misleading appearance of trading activity or price movement — both are prohibited."),
    c("Reg BI's Four Obligations", "Disclosure: be upfront about the relationship and conflicts. Care: use diligence and act in the customer's best interest. Conflict of Interest: identify and address conflicts through firm policy. Compliance: maintain policies and procedures that support all of the above. This is the broker-dealer standard of conduct for retail recommendations."),
    c("Agency vs. Principal Capacity", "When a firm acts as agent (broker), it's facilitating a trade between two other parties and charges a commission. When it acts as principal (dealer), it's trading from its own inventory and earns money through a markup (selling) or markdown (buying) rather than a commission. This must be disclosed on every trade confirmation."),
    c("AML & SARs", "Firms must maintain a written Anti-Money Laundering program to detect potentially suspicious transactions. When something suspicious is identified, the firm files a Suspicious Activity Report (SAR) with FinCEN — notably, the customer is never told a SAR was filed."),
  ],
};
